9.10)

My answers assume the amount of work that can be done per unit time is not yet maximized.
a) a faster cpu will improve cpu utilization becuase there will be more work
that can be done on the cpu in less time.
b) bigger disk probably won't increase cpu utilization because it will not
likely have an affect on 2paging disk io - with one small exception that there
is more data that can be put on the outer edges of the disk, allowing faster
reads for a possibly trivial size of data, so overall paging disk utilization
might decrease bht only minimally so.
c) Increasing the degree of multiprogramming may or may not affect cpu
utilization positively. If we have underused CPUs then increasing the degree of
multiprogramming will likely increase cpu utilization, because more work can be
done on the cpu. However, if the CPU is maximized already, increased
multiprogramming will likely decrease cpu utilization.
d) The opposite is true for decreasing multiprogramming. If the cpu is
overtaxed due to the number of tasks needing cpu, decreasing the degree of
multiprogramming  will likely increase cpu utilization. However, if the cpu is
not overtaxed, decreasing the degree of multiprogramming will likely decrease
cpu utilization
e) Installing more main memory will likely increase cpu utilization because the
system will page less frequently  due to having more memory space.
f) Upgrading the speed of harddrives or its controllers will decrease paging
disk utilization, allowing for higher cpu utilization, becuase less things are
waiting on I/O.
g)
h) Increasing the page size may or may not have a positive effect on cpu
utilization. If the page currently used is not the same size as a disk block,
for example, then having a page size the same as your block size will allow
your memory and disk controllers to speak the same block size, increasing the
speed of accesses to the paging disk, and likely increasing cpu utilization.
However, a block size to small or to large will cause the disk to spend more
time processing the wrong size blocks (in buffers, etc) increasing disk
utilization and decreasing cpu utilization as a result becuase I/O operations
will take longer.



